---
title: Post 3
description: College apps are done, time to get back to work!
---

# What Has Happened Since Post 2?
I am glad to say that the intro from Post 2 has paid off, as I have been accepted to Cornell University's College of Engineering! I am very excited to be attending Cornell this fall, and I am looking forward to the next four years. Although I still have to finish the remainder of my senior year, I am glad that I have been able to take a break from the stress of college applications as it gives me the option to work on my projects again. Speaking of projects, I have been working on a few things since my last post.

## What Am I Working On?
I had to cram a lot of work before submitting my college applications, so I don't have many updates on the larger projects I started in Post 2. However, I have been working on a few other things since then... 

### [Newbie ED Completed](https://github.com/StuyPulse/newbie-ed)
I have finished teaching the 2023-2024 Newbie ED curriculum for StuyPulse. The three-month-long curriculum is meant to teach new members of the team the basics of Java programming, Robotics concepts like control theory, the WPILib library, and the mindset of being a good software developer that I had adopted from my internship. The curriculum is currently split into 16 lessons, each with a slide deck found via README.md in each lesson, with code examples and answer keys when applicable. The final lessons that took place this past week were a "final exam" of the knowledge they have learned over the past three months. It was a project to create their own DifferentialDrivetrain subsystem, commands to control the subsystem, as well as using PID and filters to smoothen the robot's actions. The final project's key can be found in the key branch of [**ianshi**] (https://github.com/BenG49/ianshi).

### [Physics Gravitational Orbit Simulation](https://www.glowscript.org/#/user/Richie_Xue/folder/MyPrograms/program/OrbitLabRichieXuepart3) 
This is a simulation built in VPython of how the Earth orbits the Sun as a result of their gravitational forces. The simulation is based on a couple of different variables, such as the mass of the Earth, the mass of the Sun, the distance between the two, and the initial velocity of the Earth. The simulation is meant to be used as a tool to help students understand the effects of gravitational force on a projectile. By adjusting the fields in the simulation, students can see which variables affect the projectile's motion and come out with an ansatz for the gravitational force equation. I had expanded on this program as well, such as creating presets for both circular and elliptical orbits, as well as a custom input for the Earth's initial velocity, coupled alongside a "prediction" on the behavior of the orbit of the Earth (whether it would crash towards the sun, stay in orbit, or escape out into space) as well as a graph demonstrating how the system's angular momentum remains constant over time regardless of its orbit type.  
 
## What Am I Planning to Work On?
As a continuation of the last post, I want to continue learning a system-level language like C or Rust (no more C++...). I also want to learn more about machine learning and data science, as there are certain prediction model ideas I have. There is a bunch of other stuff I want to work on, but I will update you guys on that in the next post.

### Foo Food
It's that time of the year again, my chance to work with Google mentors to create a 🔥 project! This year, my group wanted to delve even deeper into what we have learned in machine learning from last year's Science Question Study Tool project, while this time incorporating another topic we would be interested in learning more about computer vision. So our proposal for *Foo Food* is to create a machine-learning model that can analyze the visual media of various plates of food using computer vision. Our inputs will be images of plates of food, obtained via either importing from files or taking a photo in real-time. We plan on using tools like OpenCV, GoogleVision, or Detectron2 for object detection and image cleaning. Next in the backend, we plan on utilizing machine learning algorithms like RCNNs as well as supplementation from multi-modal large learning models like Gemini to analyze the type of food as well as the amount of food present in the photo. Then we can run it through a large database like Google’s Nutrition5K or Nutritionix API that can generate nutritional information regarding the food present in the photo. Finally, we plan on showcasing this on the front end through a stylized website that presents the information in multiple formats (per food/ overall plate) as well as a tracker for someone’s daily nutritional intake. We have many plans including many other features, so stay tuned for updates!

### My C journey on 2023's Advent of Code
This is my very first year doing Advent of Code, and I have heard from many in the developer community that it is the best way to learn a new language. So I decided to take on the challenge and learn C. I have been working on the problems for the past few days, and I have been learning a lot about the language. I have been using the C standard libraries, and I have been learning a lot about the language's syntax and quirks. I even took this as a chance to learn how to write bash scripts using the AOC-cli tool to help create a script that would automatically get the problem of the day for me. Thankfully, I have not been troubled much by pointers as much as people have feared it to be; and for that, I greatly thank Mr. Holmes, my AP-CS A teacher, for hammering those fundamentals into me. However, I still severely struggle with working with strings in C, especially when it comes to splicing, tokenizing, and other common operations. I plan on continuing this challenge throughout December, and I hope to learn a lot more about the language. 

## Farewell
That's all for now. I am glad to be back to working on my projects, and I am excited to see what I can accomplish in the next few months. I will try to post again sometime before or during midwinter break perhaps. Until then, peace!